Welcome back.
I wanted to talk to you a bit about JavaScript looping.
You see I actually left out a few other ways that we can loop in JavaScript.
We've talked about our For loops are while loops are do while loops and we also talked about for each
but there's actually two other ways that we can loop in JavaScript and I'm going to show you how to
do that in this video.
Now let's imagine we have a basket and this basket is an array that well has our grocery list let's
say we want to buy apples we want to buy oranges and we also want to buy grapes because grapes are nature's
candy they're delicious now in order for us to loop through this basket we know how to do this right.
We've learned about the for loops where we can just do let I equals zero as long as i is less than the
basket length we increment i one by one and let's just the console dialogue basket that index of high
so that's the first type of loop that we saw if we run this in the browser
and hit enter.
We see that we get apples oranges and grapes all right.
So that's the first way we already know how to do that.
We could also use the for each loop that came new in iOS 5 and there we can just say item we'll use
air functions which we've learned about and in this area function I'll just console dot log
and that looks a lot cleaner than it was before.
If I run this function now
I get the same thing we're looping over items and I'm not going to show you how to do the while loop
and that do while loop because we've talked about it but there's two other ways that we can loop through
things in JavaScript.
The first one is called the four of loop and the other one is for in loop.
I know the naming is a little bit confusing but stick with me here.
The first one the four of loop works in a way that's very similar to these two.
It's almost as if we're combining these two together and this is a new specification with E.
So this is a new feature of JavaScript the way it works is we start with a for loop and we say item
of basket you see that at the syntax cut nicely for me it's all blue and in here we simply say console
log item not too bad Ray we're using the for keyword here but we're saying of and we're just creating
a variable we can name this whatever we want of basket which is our array and that's going to loop through
it so that if I copy and paste this here and hit enter I get the exact same thing.
And as we know in programming there's many way of doing things.
And these are just some of the ways that we can loop through this array but I want to mention a key
term here what we're doing here is something called iterating over this array and this wording.
Let's make this a little bit bigger this wording is really confusing at first when you first hear it.
But iterating simply means we're able to go one by one through an item like let's say a basket which
is an array go one by one and look at these items and iterating is able to be done in javascript on
what we call it troubles in these variables is something that JavaScript provides us that says hey you
can iterate over this thing and what is this thing.
Well in JavaScript you can iterate over arrays and we've already seen that.
And also strings instead of basket.
If I just turn this into a string and I run the four of loop here
I see that I'm iterating over the string one by one.
So both arrays and strings are ignorable in JavaScript because we're able to iterate over individual
items and 4 of allows us to iterate over these edibles.
I know the wording is really really confusing but in a lot of tutorials books and even workplace you're
going to hear this word and you want to know what it means.
But let's talk about the next thing.
The four in loop the foreign loop looks something like this and actually let's bring this back to the
way it was so not strings.
It's the array and I'm going to comment into out or delete the looping that we already familiar with
just so we have better spacing here.
Now the for in loop works with objects so let's create an object here and we'll call this object detailed
basket in this detailed basket will be an object that contains apples and actually the quantity of apples
that we want we want five apples and we'll have oranges as well and we can maybe say have 10 oranges
lots of vitamin C and then finally grapes and they're delicious.
So a thousand grapes for everybody now with this detailed basket.
Now I can use a for in loop and I can say for item in instead of of this time detailed basket and I
can console dialogue here the
so that if I clear this let's copy detailed basket.
So that's our object and we run the four in loop here.
Notice what happens I get apples oranges grapes the four in loop allows us to loop over and see the
object properties so that I can check what I need to go grocery shopping for apples oranges and grapes.
Now here's the tricky part and you'll hear this word mentioned a lot when you talk to your programming
friends and you can get really really confusing what we're doing here is not iterating because iterating
is something that we can do with arrays and strings with an object in JavaScript we're doing something
called enumerating all baseball die right because properties of an object are what we call enumerable
and an object in Javascript is innumerable if it allows us to see the properties so apples oranges and
grapes are innumerable.
That is we can use it in a for and loop to check them up.
So enumerating is four objects
innumerable and editable.
What happens if I switch these around.
What if I have basket in here and the detailed basket in here.
So we're using a for of loop with an object.
What do you think will happen this chicken.
I'm going to copy and paste this into our console hit run and I get an error detailed basket is not
ignorable.
And why is that.
Well we know that right.
I said that in JavaScript.
We have a raise in strings that are ignorable in objects in most of the cases are not ignorable.
You see four of lube doesn't work with objects because simply the javascript language needs to provide
this property that is called ignorable when this property is only given by arrays and strings and because
four of loops only works with it.
It's going to give us this error but what about here.
What if I do a for in loop on the basket which is the array.
If I copy and paste this and run this code look at that it's working I get 0 1 2 and that is because
underneath the hood you can think of JavaScript arrays like objects right.
Because an array has an index of 0 1 and 2 so we can't think of basket as an object that has properties
0 equal to apples
we have oranges that has index of 2 or index of 1 and then index of 2.
We have grapes so the 4 in loop is and Newman rating over the properties 0 1 and 2 which lists it out
for us let's make this a little smaller but I wanted to make this video for you because a lot of people
get confused between these two and although you can go a long time without ever using for and loops
we can use something like object docked keys that we've seen before.
Or valleys or entries or we can use for each loops or for loops instead of four of it's good to know
these differences because if you see them in a code base you want to understand what's happening and
also if you ever hear somebody saying editable or enumerable you kind of have an idea of the difference.
Now to review a for in loop loops over enumerable properties and enumerable property names of an object
the for of loop doesn't work with objects because they are not editable now.
There are small caveats and exceptions to these rules but ninety nine percent of the time you should
consider this.
You're using the for in loop for objects and for all loop for arrays and strings I'll see in the next
one maybe.